README.md, before:

# Terrier::Engine

This Rails Engine contains common code used by all Rails applications at Terrier Technologies.

## Usage

A demo Rails application is available in test/dummy. Please add test pages as needed.


### Tiny Modal

```coffeescript
# show a modal from a URL:
tinyModal.show url, options

# show a modal with a content string:
tinyModal.showDirect content, options
```

`options` can have the following attributes:
 * title: the title of the modal
 * icon: an un-prefixed icon name for the title
 * tiny: `true` to make it tiny
 * layout: `false` to skip the modal layout
 * callback: a callback function that receives the modal jQuery instance once it's shown
 * actions: an array of actions to go at the bottom
 
Each action value can have the following attributes:
 * title: the title of the button
 * icon: a un-prefixed icon class name
 * class: a space-separated list of class names
 * attrs: a hash of tinyTemplate attributes
 * end: `true` to put it on the left

You can call `tinyModal.pop()` to pop the current modal off the stack
or `tinyModal.close()` to close all modals.

When popped, if an input with `name=modal-src` is present on the next top modal, 
the contents of that modal will be reloaded with the URL specified in the input. 
This behavior can also be called explicitly with `tinyModal.reload()`.

If a `.modal-reload` element exists within the modal when it's closed, the page will be reloaded.


### Tiny Logger

Calling `tinyLogger.include` add debug/info/warn/error logging functions to the passed scope, such as a class.
For example:

```coffeescript
class TestClass
    constructor: ->
        tinyLogger.init this
        
    test: ->
        @info "this is info"
        @warn "this is a warning"
        @error "oh no, an error!"
```

This will print logging messages like:

```
[TestClass INFO 10:20:04.697 AM] this is info
[TestClass WARN 10:20:04.697 AM] this is a warning
[TestClass ERROR 10:20:04.697 AM] oh no, an error!
```

TinyLogger will automatically compute the log prefix by the class name of the object passed in, if it has a class. 
Otherwise you can specify a custom prefix:

```coffeescript
tinyLogger.init this, prefix: 'MyPrefix'
```

Optionally, you can pass an output element (selector string, DOM element, or jQuery object) where tinyLogger will append log divs:

```coffeescript
tinyLogger.init this, output: '#log-output'
@info "hello world"
```

will append a div to #log-output that looks something like:

```html
<div class="log info">
    <span class="prefix">[TestClass]</span>
    <span class="level">INFO</span>
    <span class="timestamp">10:20:04.694 AM</span>
    <span class="message">hello world</span>
</div>
```


## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'terrier-engine'
```

And then execute:

```zsh
bundle
npm i
```

## Development

This engine comes with a test project in the `dummy` directory. 
To set up the dummy application:

```zsh
cd dummy
bundle
rails db:create
rails db:migrate
```

Optionally link to puma-dev:

```zsh
puma-dev link -n terrier-engine .
```

Whenever changes are made to `app/frontend/terrier`, be sure to publish the npm package:

```zsh
rails npm:publish
```


## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

basic columns and filters view for table editor

README.md, after:

# Terrier::Engine

This Rails Engine contains common code used by all Rails applications at Terrier Technologies.

## Usage

A demo Rails application is available in test/dummy. Please add test pages as needed.


### Tiny Modal

```coffeescript
# show a modal from a URL:
tinyModal.show url, options

# show a modal with a content string:
tinyModal.showDirect content, options
```

`options` can have the following attributes:
 * title: the title of the modal
 * icon: an un-prefixed icon name for the title
 * tiny: `true` to make it tiny
 * layout: `false` to skip the modal layout
 * callback: a callback function that receives the modal jQuery instance once it's shown
 * actions: an array of actions to go at the bottom
 
Each action value can have the following attributes:
 * title: the title of the button
 * icon: a un-prefixed icon class name
 * class: a space-separated list of class names
 * attrs: a hash of tinyTemplate attributes
 * end: `true` to put it on the left

You can call `tinyModal.pop()` to pop the current modal off the stack
or `tinyModal.close()` to close all modals.

When popped, if an input with `name=modal-src` is present on the next top modal, 
the contents of that modal will be reloaded with the URL specified in the input. 
This behavior can also be called explicitly with `tinyModal.reload()`.

If a `.modal-reload` element exists within the modal when it's closed, the page will be reloaded.


### Tiny Logger

Calling `tinyLogger.include` add debug/info/warn/error logging functions to the passed scope, such as a class.
For example:

```coffeescript
class TestClass
    constructor: ->
        tinyLogger.init this
        
    test: ->
        @info "this is info"
        @warn "this is a warning"
        @error "oh no, an error!"
```

This will print logging messages like:

```
[TestClass INFO 10:20:04.697 AM] this is info
[TestClass WARN 10:20:04.697 AM] this is a warning
[TestClass ERROR 10:20:04.697 AM] oh no, an error!
```

TinyLogger will automatically compute the log prefix by the class name of the object passed in, if it has a class. 
Otherwise you can specify a custom prefix:

```coffeescript
tinyLogger.init this, prefix: 'MyPrefix'
```

Optionally, you can pass an output element (selector string, DOM element, or jQuery object) where tinyLogger will append log divs:

```coffeescript
tinyLogger.init this, output: '#log-output'
@info "hello world"
```

will append a div to #log-output that looks something like:

```html
<div class="log info">
    <span class="prefix">[TestClass]</span>
    <span class="level">INFO</span>
    <span class="timestamp">10:20:04.694 AM</span>
    <span class="message">hello world</span>
</div>
```


## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'terrier-engine'
```

And then execute:

```zsh
bundle
npm i
```

## Development

This engine comes with a test project in the `dummy` directory. 
To set up the dummy application:

```zsh
cd dummy
bundle
rails db:create
rails db:migrate
```

Optionally link to puma-dev:

```zsh
puma-dev link -n terrier-engine .
```

Whenever changes are made to `app/frontend/terrier`, be sure to publish the npm package:

```zsh
rails npm:publish
```

## Terrier Platform

While this project started as a collection of utilities to share between projects,
it's evolved into a platform of shared tooling and styles to build applications.

### Terrier Frontend

TODO: document usage of frontend/terrier classes 

### Terrier Styles

The `.tt-*` styles are meant to be reusable across projects.
To include them in a particular host stylesheet, just add:

```scss
*= require terrier/tt-styles-all
```

In order to prevent conflicts with the host application and allow for as much flexibility as possible, these are *hard* rules for their development:

1. *No* styles should have any effect on elements not contained in a `.tt-*` class.
2. This includes basic typography styles, which only apply to element inside a `.tt-typography`.
3. *All configurability* should be done through CSS variables - not SCSS variables - so they can be changed without recompiling.
4. All CSS variables should contain the `tt-` prefix.


## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
